feat: add `blas/ext/circshift` (#11189)
stdlib-js/stdlib: lib/node_modules/@stdlib/blas/ext/circshift/README.md

distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.

-->

# circshift

> Circularly shift the elements of an input [ndarray][@stdlib/ndarray/ctor] along one or more [ndarray][@stdlib/ndarray/ctor] dimensions by a specified number of positions.

<section class="usage">

## Usage

```javascript
var circshift = require( '@stdlib/blas/ext/circshift' );
```

#### circshift( x, k\[, options] )

Circularly shifts the elements of an input [ndarray][@stdlib/ndarray/ctor] along one or more [ndarray][@stdlib/ndarray/ctor] dimensions by a specified number of positions.

```javascript
var ndarray2array = require( '@stdlib/ndarray/to-array' );
var array = require( '@stdlib/ndarray/array' );

var x = array( [ 1.0, 2.0, 3.0, 4.0, 5.0 ] );

var y = circshift( x, 2 );
// returns <ndarray>

var arr = ndarray2array( y );
// returns [ 4.0, 5.0, 1.0, 2.0, 3.0 ]

var bool = ( x === y );
// returns true
```

The function has the following parameters:

-   **x**: input [ndarray][@stdlib/ndarray/ctor].

> -   **k**: number of positions to shift. May be either a numeric scalar value or an [ndarray][@stdlib/ndarray/ctor] having an integer [data type][@stdlib/ndarray/dtypes]. If provided an [ndarray][@stdlib/ndarray/ctor], the value must have a shape which is [broadcast-compatible][@stdlib/ndarray/base/broadcast-shapes] with the complement of the shape defined by `options.dims`. For example, given the input shape `[2, 3, 4]` and `options.dims=[0]`, an [ndarray][@stdlib/ndarray/ctor] for `k` must have a shape which is [broadcast-compatible][@stdlib/ndarray/base/broadcast-shapes] with the shape `[3, 4]`. Similarly, when performing the operation over all elements in a provided input [ndarray][@stdlib/ndarray/ctor], an [ndarray][@stdlib/ndarray/ctor] for `k` must be a zero-dimensional [ndarray][@stdlib/ndarray/ctor].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   **k**: number of positions to shift. May be either an integer scalar value or an [ndarray][@stdlib/ndarray/ctor] having a real-valued or "generic" [data type][@stdlib/ndarray/dtypes]. If provided an [ndarray][@stdlib/ndarray/ctor], the value must have a shape which is [broadcast-compatible][@stdlib/ndarray/base/broadcast-shapes] with the complement of the shape defined by `options.dims`. For example, given the input shape `[2, 3, 4]` and `options.dims=[0]`, an [ndarray][@stdlib/ndarray/ctor] for `k` must have a shape which is [broadcast-compatible][@stdlib/ndarray/base/broadcast-shapes] with the shape `[3, 4]`. Similarly, when performing the operation over all elements in a provided input [ndarray][@stdlib/ndarray/ctor], an [ndarray][@stdlib/ndarray/ctor] for `k` must be a zero-dimensional [ndarray][@stdlib/ndarray/ctor].
```

-   **options**: function options (_optional_).

The function accepts the following options:

-   **dims**: list of dimensions over which to perform operation. If not provided, the function performs the operation over all elements in a provided input [ndarray][@stdlib/ndarray/ctor].

By default, the function circularly shifts all elements. To perform the operation over specific dimensions, provide a `dims` option.

```javascript
var ndarray2array = require( '@stdlib/ndarray/to-array' );
var array = require( '@stdlib/ndarray/array' );

var x = array( [ 1.0, 2.0, 3.0, 4.0 ], {
    'shape': [ 2, 2 ],
    'order': 'row-major'
});

var v = ndarray2array( x );
// returns [ [ 1.0, 2.0 ], [ 3.0, 4.0 ] ]

var y = circshift( x, 1, {
    'dims': [ 0 ]
});
// returns <ndarray>

v = ndarray2array( y );
// returns [ [ 3.0, 4.0 ], [ 1.0, 2.0 ] ]
```

</section>

<!-- /.usage -->

<section class="notes">

## Notes

-   The input [ndarray][@stdlib/ndarray/ctor] is shifted **in-place** (i.e., the input [ndarray][@stdlib/ndarray/ctor] is **mutated**).

> -   A positive `k` shifts elements to the right (toward higher indices). A negative `k` shifts elements to the left (toward lower indices). If `k` is zero, the input [ndarray][@stdlib/ndarray/ctor] is left unchanged.

Reviewer: Same comment as REPL help.

-   The function iterates over [ndarray][@stdlib/ndarray/ctor] elements according to the memory layout of the input [ndarray][@stdlib/ndarray/ctor]. Accordingly, performance degradation is possible when operating over multiple dimensions of a large non-contiguous multi-dimensional input [ndarray][@stdlib/ndarray/ctor]. In such scenarios, one may want to copy an input [ndarray][@stdlib/ndarray/ctor] to contiguous memory before performing the circular shift.

</section>

<!-- /.notes -->

<section class="examples">

## Examples

<!-- eslint no-undef: "error" -->

```javascript

> var discreteUniform = require( '@stdlib/random/array/discrete-uniform' );

Reviewer: Same comment as elsewhere.
